[Not now] - Means that this package will not be made for version 1.0


Application Event
-------
Responsible: Raymond
A set of classes that handles different kinds of logging
methods. Provided methods include a file based logger that also
supports log-rotations and a database based logging engine. Each
logging engine is build as a handler to minimize external
dependencies. We will also try to make the functionality general
enough so it can be used to do event logging and create audit trails.


Application Framework
---------------------
The application framework package contains the basis of a module and
view system that can be used to build many types of PHP
applications. Each module should consist of a set of functionality
that can be used throughout your application. The views represent the
actual GUI built on top of this functionality.


Archive 
------- 
A set of classes that implement stream wrapper around
the different archival methods, such as tar and different compression
methods such as gzip and bzip2.


Cache
----- 
This package contains generic functionality for storing cache files on
your system. It also contains a system to distribute messages about
content changes on your site. This system can be used by your
application to regenerate or remove the caches in other parts of your
application.


Configuration
-------------
Responsible: Amos
The configuration package provides the tools to store configuration
settings for your application. Configuration options are stored on
disk using INI files. The configuration package supports manipulation
and storage of INI files in addition to the possibility to override
settings using the override system.


Console Tools
-------------
Provides functionality for working on the console. This means the
ability to parse options to scripts and output to consoles.


Database
--------
Responsible: Sergey
Provides database API and SQL abstraction for SQL databases. It also
contains tools for more advanced database operations such as finding
specific tables and cleaning them up.


Database Schema
---------------
Responsible: Vadim
The database schema package provides the means to maintain database
schema's for several different database implementations. Database
schema stores your database in a common XML format and it is possible
to create an sql file for each database, create an XML file from any
database and to diff the changes between versions of your
database. The changes can be provided as an upgrade SQL.


Date
----
A package that deals with processing dates and times, including
formatting for different locales. The classes wrap around PHP's date
functionality and add some extra methods that make working with date
and date intervals a bit easier.


Debug
-----
The debug package provides advanced tools for debugging of your
application. Typical features are several configurable levels of debug
output, application timing and nice and consistent output of your
debug information. The debug package is called only through PHP which
means that your application will not rely on the debug package even if
you use it.


File
----
Provides support for file operations which are not covered by PHP or
are just missing.


File Stream
-----------
This package provides functionality that wraps file storage. It can be
set up to store files in a database as well as on your filesystem.


File Info
---------
Provides functionality for examining files in more detail and doing
typical operations on their attributes. It can provides analysis on
the file using MIME-Types and can also encapsulates information about
a file or directory in objects which can easily be modified or
queried.


File Storage
-------------
The uploaded file package provides easy access to files uploaded by
clients over HTTP. The uploaded file is available as a temporary file
that you can choose to move to its final destination. If you ignore
the file it will be deleted at the end of the request.


HTTP Request
----------------
A package to handle incoming requests in a correct way. This includes
managing different sets of urls for setups such as a VHOST setups
(where a whole application is the only thing in a virtual host),
setups where the application is installed in a directory). A class to
work with URLs and access specific parts of a request (as seen in an
applications view) is included too.


Image Analyzer
--------------
Responsible: Tobias
Provides functionality for analyzing image formats and return detailed
information about them, such as getting the EXIF information from a
JPEG and TIFF or animation information from a GIF.


Image Conversion
-------------
Responsible: Tobias
Provides functionality for doing more advanced operations on image
formats. The package handles image conversion, filtering such as
scaling and convenient alias management.


Locale
------
Responsible: Tobias
A package that provides functionality to format all kinds of
information in a locale-dependent formats. This will most likely be an
interface to ICU's locale functionality.


Mail
----
Responsible: Frederik
The mail package provides functionality for sending and receiving
mail. It supports easy sending of multipart MIME and HTML mail and
also provides a simple way to control and send mail using the template
system.


PDF [Not now]
---
This package provides functionality to create advanced PDF files
directly from PHP.  The package supports tocs, fonts, tables, headers,
images, links, headers, footers and margins. The package is not based
on any third party tools. You can use the template system to create
PDF files through the template tie-in package.


Persistent Object
-----------------
Provides a functionality for dealing with database data in a unified
way. The actual SQL calls are abstracted so the implementor only needs
to worry about which data to retrieive.


Persistent Operation  [Not now]
-------------
This package provides functionality to make persistent requests that
go over several client requests. This is useful if your application
must perform long operations that would normally time out.


PHP Generator
-----------
A class that let's you build a PHP file without that you have to take
care about it's formatting such as indentation. Later on we might want
to add tools to analyze or process PHP code too.


Search  [Not now]
------
This module will provide the functionality to make your application
searchable through existing search engines. It will be compatible with
search engines available in the common market.


Session  [Not now]
-------
A package to handle and manage sessions. This works again with tie-ins
to specific session handlers to minimize dependencies and offer more
flexibility. The management features include listing active sessions,
disconnecting sessions and linking sessions to user(id)s. It also
manages SSL/non-SSL session switches and v.v.


SRM
---
This module will provide functionality to keep data in memory and to
have it available from PHP independent of web requests. This allows
you to store common data in memory which will make access to it much
faster than both file access and database queries.


System Information
------------------
Responsible: Frederik
Provides access to information about the underlying Operating System,
such as installed Memory and CPU as well as platformed dependent items
such as directory separator and EOL style. It will cover the things
which are not immediately handled by PHP constants and functions,
those that are handled by PHP will be properly explained.


Template
--------
Responsible: Amos
Provides functionality for separating layout and design from the PHP
code. The template system supports compiling the code into PHP code to
speed up the execution and allows third party add-ons to be made. The
template system can be used to generate HTML pages, text files and
emails.


Text Tools  [Not now]
----------
The text tools package contains simple text to HTML transformation
tools including tools to automatically convert URLs into links and a
tag based language that is transformed into more advanced HTML.


Translation
-----------
A system for translating websites' static information, such as labels,
help fields, menu options etc. The system works with a definition file
and special translations can be plugged in easily.


User Input
------------------
Responsible: Derick
This set of classes addresses the basic needs of filtering user
originated data, such as GET, POST and COOKIE data. It builds on top
of PHP's filtering extension and allows you to register your own
filters too. It also provides a class that you can use to elegantly
handle a set of input variables in f.e. the collection of a HTML form
providing correct filtering with means of a definition structure.


Webdav  [Not now]
------
This is a component that let's you easily build a webdav server to
handle file uploads and downloads. For each different mime type the
webdav server can call a specially registered handler to handle
storage of the file and/or do external processing on the file before
processing it further in the application.


Web Tools
---------
Responsible: Kirill
Provides advanced functionality for dealing with the Web or HTTP, such
as advanced redirection and web client detection.


Wizard  [Not now]
------
The wizard package provides the means to create wizard like web-pages
where the user has to go through a procedure over several pages. The
wizard package will store temporary values in session variables.
